g'day guys welcome to another minecraft
edu tutorial this one is another one on
redstone and how you can use it with
students in my 21 question map I had I
don't know what it's actually called but
I call it a flip flop so something that
remembers its state and this is the one
I had over here and this is what i use
to stop students getting down so two
students getting down the same path so
the students ran over a pressure plate
which triggered a piston which stayed
open given that so if I set that up
again and one set it up again here I
actually had a piston on top of that
that stopped people going in there again
you have to manually reset it but as
soon as a student walks across this it
activates that piston and prevents
people other people coming in so that
was how I prevented students doubling up
and going through the same path with one
another so these are pretty pretty easy
to build so now that people can't get
through there so I will go and quickly
build one over here just clear a little
bit of land so those ones are the
easiest you have two blocks redstone
torches and redstone dust between them
so what happens is when this redstone
torches on it powers this block which
means this torch gets turned off but if
you power this block i'm standing on
with something for instance a pressure
plate it will reverse it because this
tortures off which will allow this torch
to be on which then powers is block
permanently so this is how you can get
something to save a state if you will so
I call them flip-flops so it'll save a
state depending on what's happened so in
the case of the sticky piston down here
this sticky piston will stay out and
stop other students going in until you
manually reset it now I've been watching
some videos by etho if you are a fan of
redstone and really cool stuff i
recommend you drop by his channel its
ethos lab eth osla be so he does some
pretty amazing stuff with redstone and
this is a smaller version of a flip-flop
that etho uses so at the moment you can
see my signal is out here i can turn
that signal off and make it come out the
other end by using that pressure plate
there and it will stay coming at this
end until I stand on that pressure plate
there and that will reverse it
so same principle a bit smaller design
and over here is another thing that I've
seen on ethos channel same flip-flop in
this in this area here but I've also got
repeaters set up around here that reset
the system after that amount of time so
you'll notice that this line here is on
if I hit my button that line will go off
this line will go on and will stay on
for a amount of time and then this line
will go back on so that's a self
resetting one so it just allows you to
make a button press last a lot longer
that's pretty much it for this flip-flop
tutorial I probably should show you how
to make one of them so hang on a second
so these ones are even easier than the
other ones make a little one like that
redstone torch underneath redstone torch
on the back and redstone along the top
and then you have an out signal there
and out signal there and to reset it you
need to power that block down there so
if I power that block there that will
will reset it and said to single out
this way and if you want to reset it the
other way you need a I recommend a
repeater there it stops things doubling
back when you don't want them to and
then redstone line running to here and
I'll put a pressure plate there to show
you so now when I stand on this pressure
plate here
that resets and if I go and stand on
this one it'll go back the other way so
that's how to make one of those
flip-flops and I've shown you how to
make one of the earth flip-flops I hope
this has been helpful like say I've only
used this with students to prevent other
students going down the same path but in
my map generations that i'll be doing
over the christmas break i'm sure i'll
be using this sort of stuff a fair bit
more thanks for watching see you next
time